"SKY"
This material is meant to be completely invisible, and is used to support thin structures in order to avoid them either collapsing or bending too much.

"Ground"
this materials is fixed and isn't affected by physics.  It's not possible to break it either
This is meant for people to Anchor their creation on the ground.  This way, we can build citiee, Oil rig, or even Bridges. 
Since you already have a texture for the ground, I suggest you apply the same texture on top of it for a seamless transition. 

"MASS"
This material is to help balancing the creations... well it can also be used to sink or crush them.  
A nice addition would be to have an option in the settings menu where we can change the Mass of this material.

---------------------------------

Floating sandbox has some very similar features as the one we've planned for Sinking Sim 2. here I will share them.

I suggest all Electrical and possibly mechanical Logic/materials to be moved to a different layers
For instance, Right now, it is part of the layer "Structural" and there's the layer "Texture" 
I suggest a new layer called "Dynamics" where we will draw the layours of dynamics materials

For instance, the Electrical grid including all types of lights and generators

New addition would be Mechanical objects such as Watertight doors or Screw (propellers) 
they could be bind to either a Key or their own section in the settings window

Materials permeability, 
This would be another "layer" where the ship would be completely black with shades of Grey
Black colour would represent a material that blocks 100% of the water it touches
White would be the opposite, so a hole that let 100% of the water through
Following this logic, dark grey would let a little bit of water through.

We had the idea to move to Textures as well, Almost identically as what you've done,
Except we plan to add more layers and keep the ships in a Zip in order to avoid confusion.
The zip will also allow for custom "Json" files 
So when we load the ships, we only have to load the Zip directly. 



